ame: Madicken Munk

Talk title:  Tools for Transformation: Computational Methods and Modeling in Nuclear Engineering

Abstract of talk: 
Computational tools are our first step to model, design, and study innovative nuclear technologies, eventually bringing these technologies to licensing and deployment. Each stage of computational tool development--from implementing numerical methods to modeling and analysis--has unique design requirements. In this talk, Dr. Munk will discuss several computational tools that she has implemented, including a coupled neutronics/structural mechanics method using MCNP and COMSOL; FW/CADIS-Ω, a hybrid method for deep-penetration neutron transport; and widgyts, a tool to interactively explore volumetric data. Each will be complemented by a discussion of how the tool both expands and provides limited insight into our data. Finally, Dr. Munk will share her perspective on the future of computational methods development in nuclear engineering.  

Bio: 
Dr. Madicken Munk is currently a postdoctoral research scholar at the National Center for Supercomputing Applications at the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign in the Data Exploration Lab. Her current work centers on making scalable tools for data analysis and visualization for multidimensional data. She earned her PhD in nuclear engineering from the University of California, Berkeley in 2017 and performed her dissertation work at Oak Ridge National Laboratory and in residence as a member of the Berkeley Institute for Data Science. There, she focused on developing implementing and studying an angle-informed hybrid method that was designed for highly anisotropic, deeply-penetrating shielding problems. Dr. Munk’s work lies at the intersection of reactor physics, radiation transport, and high performance computing. In addition to her work in nuclear engineering, Madicken enjoys participating in the SciPy and Carpentries communities where she works to make computing accessible to users of all levels. 